---
layout: article
title: So Wired
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2006-10-21 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ technology, mythtv, diy ]
no_fediverse: true
---

{% lightbox /assets/images/Living_Room_Outlet --thumb="/assets/images/thumbs/Living_Room_Outlet" --data="Living_Room_Outlet" --img-style="max-width:200;" %}

Well, the wiring is finally finished!  With the help of my friend and co-worker, Chris, it took all of 15 minutes to get the coat hanger fished up to the outlet.  From there, it was a cakewalk:  draw string back through, draw ethernet up from basement, draw some spare string down into basement (for later expansion, if need be), rejoice.

In addition, last night I got the [MythTV](../projects/MythTV.md) subnet running and operating correctly.  So, once I get a new EPIA board, installing the frontend should be relatively straightforward.  Assuming it isn't DOA as well...

Speaking of which, it looks like shipping it back should be... interesting.  The main problem is in potential customs and taxes which could be levied on the board as it returns across the US border.  Hopefully, I can fill out appropriate paperwork and have it marked as a returned item, but we shall see.  Meanwhile, on the way back to Canada, I will almost certainly be charged taxes and duty on the replacement, but luckily there's forms I can submit to get those fees refunded.

Meanwhile, it looks like that EPIA board will spit out component video!  It appears to have a header on the motherboard for attaching the proper outputs.  Unfortunately... I don't have a bracket to attach to said header.  Fortunately, [VidaBox](http://www.vidabox.com) came to the rescue!  They specialize it building MCE-based multimedia boxes, but they also sell a number of accessories, one of which is the very bracket I need.  A few emails back and forth between their sales staff, and voila!  A bracket is on it's way.  After paying $15 for the bracket and $10 for shipping... US.  Not to mention taxes.

Did I mention that ordering stuff online isn't always the most economical thing in the world to do?

