---
layout: article
title: Nesting...
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2006-10-15 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ diy, technology ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Well, with all the hardware for the [MythTV](../projects/MythTV.md) project on the way (mostly, anyway... NCIX didn't have a couple items in stock.  Like the TV capture card), it seemed like a good time to get the house in order for the new arrivals.  Thus, as a logical first step, I decided it was about time I got my firewall rebuilt and moved all the various networking bits downstairs onto some kind of shelving.  The result is this:

{% lightbox /assets/images/Nice_Rack --thumb="/assets/images/thumbs/Nice_Rack" --data="Nice_Rack" --img-style="max-width:100;" %}

As you can see, I re-purposed an old Ikea shelving unit as a make-shift rack, and then moved all these things downstairs:

1. Cable Modem
2. 10Mbs hub (until I get a proper switch for the main house LAN)
3. 10/100Mbs switch for the MythTV LAN
4. Firewall

In case you're wondering, this gear is all set up like so:

[[fig:Home Network Diagram]]

Why so complicated?  Well, the primary complication is in my choice to shunt the MythTV stuff onto it's own subnet.  I had a couple reasons for this:

1. The MythTV frontends will be configured via DHCP and bootp.  Putting this on a separate network prevents conflicts with the main firewall DHCP (and any other network-booted devices I may deploy).
2. I figured a dedicated, switched 100Mbs network for the Myth stuff wasn't a bad thing.

Of course, if I had a proper switch which supported VLANs, I could have done this with a single switch, but I wasn't prepared to pay the bucks for such a device.

As for the firewall, I ended up abandoning [LEAF](http://leaf.sourceforge.net) in favour of [m0n0wall](http://m0n0.ch/wall/), a FreeBSD-based firewall that boots nicely off a mini-CD and writes it's configuration to a dirt cheap USB flash drive I plugged into the back of the thing (IOW, no more unreliable floppies!).  And as a bonus, it has a nice, easy to use web-based admin interface, so no longer do I have to hook a damn monitor up to the thing every time I want to reconfigure things.

