---
layout: article
title: Trip 2, Fini
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2007-01-23 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ travel, books, reviews ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Well, trip number two has come to a close, this time a jaunt out to Regina for some mom-time with Linda!  As usual, food was abundant, as was amusement (and slightly hurt feelings :) with the copy of [Ticket To Ride](http://www.ticket2ridegame.com/) that we purchased and hauled along.  Among other things that were accomplished, I:

1. Proved to myself that my knitting needles (as previously mentioned) would easily get through airport security (they didn't even register on the X-Ray, so far as I know).
2. As a result of 1, half-finished Lenore's new hat.  Unfortunately, I ran out of yarn, as I neglected to bring a second ball.
3. Finished reading "Red_Mars", a rather largish tome by Kim Stanley Robinson which details the terraforming of Mars.
4. Learned how to make Cabbage Rolls!  Linda is an excellent tutor. :)
5. Started reading "Robots and Empire", by the legendary Isaac Asimov.

And on the topic of Red Mars, a mini review.  In short, it's a massive vision, incredibly detailed and realistic.  Characterization is good, though the dialog a little unbelievable at times.  The plot can be a bit ponderous, and Robinson seems to relish showing off his knowledge of Mars topography, going on for pages describing the Martian landscape.  The discussion of the sociological impacts of Martian colonization are quite fascinating, particularly in conjunction with new technologies that are invented in the course of the story.

In short, highly recommended for anyone into hard science fiction and who can stand a healthy dose of Tolkein-esque verbosity.

