---
layout: article
title: One Down
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2007-03-07 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ writing ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Sure, it may be a small milestone, but my first piece of (very) short fiction is now complete!  Or, at least, the very first, very rough draft is complete.  At a little over 8800 words, or nearly 12 pages, it is, I think, the longest bit of creative writing I've ever put together.  Yeah, I know, that's not very big (a novella ranges between ~17,000 and ~40,000 words, though technically, it apparently qualifies as a <a class="inter Wikipedia outside" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Novelette">Novelette</a>), especially considering I expect to cut a good 800 words out during the rewrite phase, but given that it's my first serious crack at creative writing, I'm pretty happy with it, despite the distinct lack of originality it represents (who needs originality, anyway, I ask you?).

So now what?  Simple: it goes in the vault.  The idea, here, is that once a piece is complete, you set it aside for a while in order to gain some distance from it.  Then, when you go back to edit the thing, you can do so with a fresh perspective on the work.  And once the rewrite is complete, only then do you kick your baby out of the nest, hoping against hope that it'll flap it's wings a little and avoid crashing and burning too badly.

Meanwhile, tomorrow I'll get started on my next idea.  It's been rolling around in the back of my mind for the last week, so I'm kind of excited to pull it out of the cellar that is my hindbrain and see what it looks like in the light of day.  Hopefully it ain't too ugly...

