---
layout: review
title: "Review: Maus I & II"
date: 2006-09-03 02:00:00 -0700
author: Brett Kosinski
category: [ books ]
isbn: "9780679406419"
no_fediverse: true
---

So, as I mentioned in my [entry](Blog-2006-08-21.md) on the graphic novel [Watchmen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watchmen), I chose [Maus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maus) (and Maus 2) as the next step in my foray into the graphic novel medium.  Maus is, first and foremost, the tale of a holocaust survivor.  Written by Art Spiegelman, the core narrative surrounds his father, Vladek, and his life in Poland before, during, and shortly after the holocaust.  In an unusual twist, the story is told from a sort of metabiographical perspective, in that the reader is presented with a depiction, not only of Vladek's tale, but also of the author's experiences as he goes through the process of interviewing his father and writing the book. The result is that we not only learn of Vladek's experiences surviving the unthinkable, but also the effect these events have on his present day life and the individuals connected to him.

<!-- more -->

What I find most remarkable about the work, aside from the incredible and often disturbing depiction of the events Vladek managed to live through, is how completely honest and forthright Spiegelman is.  As a metabiography, we are allowed to observe as the author attempts to come to grips with his relationship with his father and the things he faced.  It is this tale which is often lost when discussing the holocaust, but it is an equally important one, as it reminds us that those horrible events not only shaped the lives of the people who lived through it, but also the lives of their friends and family as well.

So, in summary, if you're at all interested in graphic novels, this really is a must-read.  It's an excellent example of how to exploit the graphic novel medium in order to tell the story.  In a way, it's brevity (just shy of 300 pages) is a testament to how powerful the graphic story telling medium can be, as it allows the author to present in a single frame what would take paragraphs to express (poorly) in words.

So, next up, V for Vendetta!  After that, who knows.  Perhaps I'll have to order that copy of [Blankets (graphic novel)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blankets%20(graphic%20novel)) (unfortunately, [From Hell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/From%20Hell) isn't scheduled to be reprinted until October)...

