---
layout: article
title: The Cheek
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2006-10-09 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ random, family ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Another Thanksgiving is over.  Spent with Lenore's family, much turkey was consumed, much knitting performed, and much thanks was given.  And then, at the last minute, I fumbled.

Okay, for the few regular readers I have, you'll know this is the time for some backstory.  Back in the day when I first met Lenore's family, I was... intrigued/interested/impressed/something... to note that, when giving goodbye's, it's tradititional to kiss on the lips.  This was interesting and, frankly, foreign to me because, coming from a cold, heartless, distant family, we just don't do things like that.  Hell, we barely hug or, you know, express affection for one another, let alone kiss.  In fact, truth be told, I'm virtually positive that the only women I've kissed on the lips are the women I've dated.  And even then, it can be iffy... Lenore had to practically force me to kiss her (though, that was mainly because I'm a gigantic pussy).

Anyway, after a rocky start (hey, who **would** trust me right off the bat?), I finally managed to win Linda (Lenore's mom) over, and since then I think I've managed to integrate myself fairly well into the Harrison family unit.  Hell, I've even delivered the occasional "I love you"... and I barely say that to **my** mom!

Which brings us to my fumble.  We were all ready to leave.  It was the end of a fine weekend and goodbyes were being said.  And just as I'm ready to give Linda a goodbye hug... she moves in for the kiss.  And I panicked.  And I gave her the cheek.  Oh yes I did.  I **gave her the cheek**.  I'm so awesome.

Now, in the end, it's probably a minor thing.  But, Linda, if you're reading this, I hope you don't feel embarassed or anything... consider this a reminder that I'm still a gigantic knob, even if I managed to convince you otherwise. ;)

