---
layout: article
title: So... tired...
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2006-02-12 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ palm ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Ugh.  It's 1:18am, and I'm only now finally ready to put my Palm down and leave it alone for a bit.  Stupid thing, being as cool as I expected!  A quick run-down of the apps I've installed:

* AeroPlayer - Audio player.
* brightnessFix2 - Hack to remove lower limit on screen dimming.
* CliFrotz - ZCode interpreter.
* Filez - File Manager.
* IBM JVM - A Java Virtual Machine.
* Little John - Multi-system emulator.
* MemUnfragment - A hack to reduce fragmentation of the TX's memory.
* NetChaser - 802.11 scanner (for wardriving... good times. :)
* Opera Mini - Opera's java-based mini-browser.
* PalmFiction - E-Book reader.
* PalmPDF - A nice PDF viewer based on Xpdf.
* PalmVNC - VNC client.  You'd be surprised how useful this has been, already.
* PilotGOne - Go software.
* pssh - SSH client.
* Quick News - An RSS reader.
* SgfMan - Go game record manager.
* SmbMate - Windows file share browser (**extremely** handy, and I found an actual freeware copy).
* SoftwareUpdate - Tool for installing software via URL.
* Sudoku - Name says it all.
* TCPMP - Video player.
* UDMH - Another memory hack (makes SD storage look like RAM).

Yeah.  All that.  And that doesn't include the time I spent acquiring stuff to play on Little John, populating my SD card with music, copying over zcode files, the odd e-book (including [Shape Up](http://gobase.org/studying/articles/matthews/shape_up/) and [Alice in Wonderland](http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/11)), and lord knows what else.  I think it suffices to say that, thus far, I've gotten my money's worth out of it.  It should be interesting to see how long the novelty lasts. :)

Anyway, in the next couple days I'll see about posting some pictures and initial impressions (which are, BTW, quite favourable, by and large).  Meanwhile, I really gotta go to bed... unlike Lenore, who's psychotic enough to try and watch the Olympics when they start broadcasting live at 2.

