---
layout: article
title: NYC 2007 - Day 4
author: Brett Kosinski
date: 2007-01-16 02:00:00 -0700
category: [ travel ]
no_fediverse: true
---

Yes, that's right... day 4.  Today, the flight plan was to catch a plane from Newark to Toronto at 6:20, with a connecting flight from Toronto to Edmonton later in the morning, which had us arriving some time before lunch.  So, we awoke in our tiny hotel room at a mind-numbing 3:30, caught the E train to Penn Station around 4:10 (the subway is **slow** that early in the morning), grabbed the NJT at 4:40 (the plan was to catch the 4 :20, so we were already running late), arrived at the Newark Airport around 5:10 or so, waited in line for around ten minutes, cursing the slow people in front of us, and then discovered that our flight had been canceled.

Yeah.  Cancelled.  Reason:  freezing rain in Toronto.

So, here I am, tapping away,  waiting for a 9:20 flight to TO, and upon arrival, we'll be hanging out in the airport for a good 8 hours, so we can catch an evening connecting flight back home.  How I love air travel...

On the bright side, the ticket agent was very friendly and did his best to get us on a reasonable flight plan.  And we got a free breakfast out of the deal, too (do you suppose The Great American Bagel  Factory is affiliated with The Great Canadian Bagel?  Because they make a fine fine egg sandwich on a delicious jalapeno and cheddar bagel).  OTOH, now we get to fight through a day of travel.  Woo.  Woo.

Update:

Okay, that Air Canada travel agent is frickin' **awesome**.  Not only did he get us on a flight directly to TO instead of my original flight plan of Montreal -> Toronto -> Edmonton (lenore was scheduled to go through Chicago), but for the TO leg, we're in **first class**!  Seriously, this is fantastic... nice, padded,  not-rock-hard chairs.  Tons of leg room.  Two full armrests.  Truly, this is the life.  'course, last I heard, there was a gate hold in place, and we're 25th in line for takeoff, meaning 45 minutes of taxi time, but hey, that just means more time in first class!

Update 2:

Good grief... we're in  executive class for the second leg, too!  Air Canada ticket agent guy, I love you (in a platonic way)!

Update 3:

I have the [New York Photo Gallery](Gallery-New_York,_2007-01-13.md) uploaded!

